# ZooparkDP
   Zoopark c# console application integrating design patterns in its construction.
  In this zoopark there are animals (which are created as objects of class each kind of animal with a factory), there are workers with given tasks to them(by a Chain of responsibility design patters) and there is a calculator for the pure profit of the facility.
  Every animal kind has a name, a region of habitat, type by what food it consumes, type by its biological structure(mammal, bird, etc), short description about given animal kind, number of animals of this kind in the zoo (number of identical objects of this class, which kinda has the purpose of a Flyweight Fabric), the expences for each single animal for a week, and lastly, the type of cage they're put into(for the choosing of which a bridge between the type of animal and the cage type is used). These are represented as properties of every animal object, created with the factory. The factory consists of a public interface IAnimal, where the constuction of the object is given, classes which extendthe interface, representing each kind of animal, living in the zoo and an Abstract Factory AnimalFactory,in which is used a get method to get object of animal kind. With a switch statement, we choose from which kind do we create object by providing a key, which is for unique each kind(class)
 In each class the properties for each kind are being set. 
 
  In the main method, after each new implementation of IAnimal is created, a print method is called, printing in the console information for each object(each froup of identical objects). Each group of animals are living in a separate cage, which has typing(in this zoo's case, it can be a big cage, or a small cage). The deciding of what cage to put the kind of animal is given in the print method ListAnimal(IAnimal animal), with an if case with checking if the objects are mammlas, birds or reptiles, since these the types the current occupying animlas have. The bridges, similarly to the animals, have an Interface ICage, an Abstract class Type, classes of each type of cage( BigCage and SmallCage)implememting Type and classes of the types of animals, to which we assure the cages. In the Type abstr class an instance of the ICage is initialised, which in the print method is gien value an object of AnimalTypeCalss.  Each AnimalTypeCalss(Mammal f.e,) implements the interface ICageThe. 
  The Chain of Responsibility design pattern is used for managing the distribution of tasks for the management of the zoopark. The staff consists of several people, each with a drifferent profession. The staff has a hieracy in which all rasks are being assigned to the manager, from whom the tasks are being given over to each staff member, until it gets to the right one.
  The deciding if one's qualified to do a specific job is decided in each of the employees's class (each employee has its own class, which implements a Worker base class, where a succesor is being set) by again by a if/else statement on the princip of if a specific word/s is/are found in the approached task, it is assignes to the given class(employee), f.e. the cleaner looks for the word "clean" in each tasks he has read.
  
  Each employee is being paid every week. So are expences given for each animal(food, water, medication, etc.) These resources come from ticket sales(currwntly there are two types of tickests - for adults(16$) and for children (7.5$)). After all expences there should be left some profit or loses, which are being calculated once in the week by a calculating method, which gets all sold tickets (for adult and for child), multiplying them by the each's corrensponding price, which are all the incomed money, and from it are being substitued all expences(each employe'se salary, each animal from each kind's expences) and the result is the pure profit. 
 
 
  
 
 
 

